It's nice to see you all here.
This is session 310,
A Practical Approach to Software Testing.
I'm Doug Simons from Redstone
Software in Colorado.
And in case you're not interested
in software testing or you're
only interested in impractical
approaches to software testing,
this slide is your cue
to head for the exit.
Otherwise,
I suppose you're here for a reason,
and I just wanted to give you a quick
overview of what this talk is about.
First of all,
we're looking at maximizing the
value with your testing resources.
It's a chronic problem that
most testing organizations,
the testing department
in most organizations,
tends to always be a little understaffed,
underfunded, and overworked.
So if you find yourself in that position,
don't feel alone.
So it's really important to get
the maximum value out of the
testing resources that you've got,
and we'll try and give you some
practical approaches to that here.
We'll mostly be looking at testing
software from the user's perspective.
This is not a session
about unit testing of code,
which is also very important,
but we're looking at the experience
that you're going to be delivering
to your customers when you
deliver your product to them.
I'll try and focus a lot on the
what and how of software testing.
We'll have a little bit of theory
and some slides along the way,
but I also want to give you some real
concrete practical examples here.
So what I hope you'll learn
is some of the benefits of
automation and software testing.
Automation can be a huge help to
you in carrying out your software
testing since you have limited
resources and limited time.
It can be a real boon to you.
And we'll talk about how to get started
because sometimes it can be hard
for people to know how to get going.
They know they want to
test their software,
they know they would like maybe
to automate some of that testing,
but it can be a little daunting
sometimes to know how to begin.
And I'll try and give you a
couple of ideas about where you
might focus your testing efforts.
And along the way I'll introduce
six principles of practical testing.
This is some key take-home
points that I wanted to give you.
And throughout the demos you'll
see some specific techniques of
how to carry out your testing.
So I thought I should
introduce myself first,
let you know who I am.
I'm a developer.
I don't have a PhD in software testing.
I'm not a testing expert,
but I've been developing
software for a long time.
And in particular,
for the last four years,
I've been developing a
product called Eggplant,
which is a software testing tool that
hopefully some of you have heard of.
And in the process of developing Eggplant
and in working with our customers,
of course,
most of whom are software testers,
I've learned a fair amount
about software testing.
So I wanted to share
some of that with you.
Now, who are you?
I'm kind of guessing that
most of you are maybe not
software testing experts either.
You're probably software developers,
people who are doing some testing maybe
or looking to do some more testing,
and hoping to give you a little bit
of a boost here in your software
testing efforts as you move towards
becoming a practical tester here.
One of the first questions that
people are likely to ask when they
get into doing some testing is,
"Well, what should I test?"
If you explore the
testing literature at all,
you're likely to come across
a lot of different terms.
Functional testing, regression testing,
performance, compatibility, use cases,
integration load.
There's a lot of stuff out there,
and it can be a little
bewildering at first.
You may also be looking at your software.
You probably have some complex software
you want to test and wondering whether
you should be testing the inputs or the
outputs or the menus or the windows.
The whole thing may be a
little overwhelming at first.
I just wanted to give you a brief
word of advice in the immortal
words of Douglas Adams from
A Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy,
don't panic.
You may be feeling like there's
no way that you're going to
be able to test the software.
You may be feeling like there's
no way that you're going to
be able to test everything.
Relax, it's okay because you can't.
There's no way you're going to test
everything that you'd like to test.
You've got limited resources, as I said,
and even if your organization
has plenty of staff and
plenty of budget for testing,
there's always one resource that
you're going to be short on,
and that's time.
The system that you're testing
is likely to be a moving target.
Your developers keep developing things,
and there's always more to be tested.
Taking advantage of the technology.
Taking advantage of some of
these approaches and using
automation is probably something
that can really help you out.
So the thing to do, of course,
since you can't test everything,
is you want to focus your attention
on the areas that are going to
give you the greatest return.
So where do you start?
Well, my advice is to start somewhere.
It's always good to get going at
least and see if you can get going.
If you're not sure where to start,
I thought I'd toss out a couple of
possibilities that occurred to me.
One is to validate bug fixes.
Most of us, as we're developing software,
we have bugs now and then.
And so if you have a bug,
this is a great opportunity
to do some testing.
You can create a test
first to verify that,
in fact, you do have a bug,
that something isn't working correctly.
And then once you've fixed the bug,
you can create a test to validate
that that bug no longer exists.
So that can be a great place to
start and can help you to build
up a library of things as you go.
Clearly, one of the places that you want
to focus your attention is on the
central features of your application.
What is it about your application
that makes it special?
What are your users using it for?
And you want to focus
on those areas the most.
Use cases is something
that many organizations,
certainly those who have more
of a formal development process,
use.
If you're creating use cases as
part of your requirements process,
which describe how your customers
will be using the product,
that's a great thing to
use as a basis of a test.
Risk is another area that
you might take a look.
If there's some area of your software
that's a little shaky and you've
had problems there in the past,
that may be a good part of your
application to focus some of your testing
resources on to make sure that you don't
have more problems going down the line.
Another category of risks would
be risks to your customers.
Hopefully you're not doing anything
that's going to physically damage them,
but you may have areas that could
lose data and that sort of thing,
which we'll discuss in a little bit.
Risk is another area that
you might take a look at.
If there's some area of your software
that's a little shaky and you've
had problems there in the past,
that's a good part of your application
to focus some of your testing resources
on to make sure that you don't have
more problems going down the line.
Another category of risks is risk is
an area that you might take a look at.
If there's some area of your software
that's a little shaky and you've
had problems there in the past,
that's a good part of your application
to focus some of your testing resources
on to make sure that you don't have
more problems going down the line.
Another category of risks is risk is
an area that you might take a look at.
If there's some area of your software
that's a little shaky and you've
had problems going down the line.
I'd also like to suggest that you
consider automating from the start.
Now,
a lot of people look at automation and,
you know, they're busy testing their
software and they think,
I don't have time to figure out
automation and to get this stuff to work.
And, you know, I can understand that,
but it's kind of interesting.
A friend of mine put it this way.
It's like,
suppose you're bicycling along,
you're heading for your destination,
you're pedaling away,
and a friend of yours
comes by in a car and says,
hey, I'm heading for your destination.
I'm heading that way.
Would you like a ride?
And you say, oh, man, are you kidding?
I'm pedaling as fast as I can.
And, you know, a lot of us feel that
way a lot of the time.
We're pedaling as fast as we can.
We don't have time to get
off and get in the car.
But sometimes it's a good idea to stop
and consider whether what you're doing,
you know,
whether you're doing the same thing
over and over again and expecting
some sort of different results.
It might be a good idea to take the time
and get off the bike and get in the car.
Now, I recognize that automation
takes some effort.
It's not something that is
without some costs there.
But on the whole,
the payback can be tremendous.
So something that you
should take a look at.
So let's take a quick look at what
are some of the benefits of automation
that you might want to consider.
For one thing,
automation provides constant feedback.
If you've developed some tests-- let's
say you're testing your application.
You've created a test for
some particular feature.
You say, great, that feature works.
And so a little later,
you create some other tests,
or you do some testing.
But your application keeps evolving.
And as it changes,
sometimes things that you've
previously tested stop working.
And so if you can repeat the
same tests that you did before,
you're that much better off.
Now, when you're doing manual testing,
you lots of times don't have
time to go back and test the
things that you've already tested.
With automation,
you've got the computer there
to do that work for you.
And so it's easy to repeat those
tests and make sure that you're
not introducing new bugs in
areas that you've already tested.
Automation is great for
doing repetitive tasks,
things that a person is
not going to want to do,
doing the same thing over and over again.
And of course,
automation gives you consistent
and reliable results which
can be really valuable.
You can run regression
tests after every build,
so each time you have a
new build of your software,
you can rerun those tests again to
make sure that things aren't breaking.
You can perform tests
repeatedly with different data.
Testing with large quantities
of data can be really valuable
depending on what your application is,
and automation is a great
way to go about doing that.
Automation can also be helpful
for reproducing some of
those intermittent failures,
the things that show up every once in a
while and that are really hard to nail
down when you're testing things manually.
Every time you go to try that part,
it works fine, and then one of your
customers runs into it later.
Those can be the most frustrating
things to find and track down.
Well, God eliminates human error up here.
Of course,
automation doesn't eliminate human error.
We're all human and we
keep making mistakes,
but if you can turn some of
the task over to the computer,
then at least hopefully it's not
going to make those same mistakes.
And the bottom line is that automation
is going to increase your efficiency
to save you time and effort.
So I said I was going to introduce
some principles of practical testing.
The first one I want to throw out to
you here is to test the user experience,
not the code.
What do I mean by this?
As developers,
we oftentimes kind of lose sight
of the application for the code.
We get so involved with the
code that we're focused on,
and as we're developing
it and working with it,
perhaps you're doing unit
testing of your code,
which is great.
But keep in mind that no matter how much
you test individual modules of your code,
that doesn't guarantee
that the application,
the thing that your end
user is working with,
is going to work.
So it's really important
to test the final product.
And so I'm going to
emphasize this point again,
testing from the user's point of view,
because that's really where
the value is to your customers.
So before we get into the demos,
I want to tell you just a little
bit about Eggplant so you'll
understand what you're seeing.
Eggplant is a two-computer system.
It runs on a Mac.
It's installed here on a Mac OS X system.
I've got kind of an old picture there.
And it connects across the
network to a computer that's
running something called VNC.
Now, VNC is an open source product that
does remote control of another system.
So some of you probably use this.
It's great because you can
access your Mac at home when
you're at work or vice versa.
The OS X VNC product that runs on OS X is
actually maintained by our company.
So if any of you are using that,
it's free.
If you're not using it, go get it.
It's a great tool to use to
remotely control another computer.
And what VNC does is serves
up a picture of the screen.
It's a great tool to use to
remotely control another computer.
And what VNC does is serves up
a picture of the screen to your
local computer and allows you to
control the keyboard and the mouse.
Now, what Eggplant adds to this is
the ability to create scripts to
automate things on the remote system.
And Eggplant is kind of unique in
the way it goes about doing scripting
because its scripts are visual.
Eggplant, all it knows about the remote
system is that it has a lot
of pixels there on the screen.
So in order to interact with that,
it's looking for things
visually on the screen,
controlling the keyboard and mouse,
and this, as it turns out,
gives us a tremendous amount of
flexibility to allow us to drive any
software written in any language.
It doesn't matter if it's
Carbon or Cocoa or Java or PC.
It doesn't matter if it's PHP or what.
And it can be running on any OS.
So going back here to our principles,
again, just a reminder,
testing the user experience,
not the code.
And also, our next principle here
is to start simple.
This is a principle borrowed from
agile programming approaches.
Begin with the simplest
test and build up as you go.
And let's see how we're going to do that.
So if we could switch
to the demo machine.
Demo?
So the first thing we're going
to do in Eggplant is open a
connection to another machine.
Actually connecting to
the laptop over here,
which is-- I've got a screen scaled
down to a nice small resolution there so
we can fit it on the demo screen here.
Eggplant likes a nice big screen.
Since you're controlling
another computer,
it's nice to be able to
see the other system.
So it's a great excuse
to go buy a big monitor.
But anyway, here we've got another system
that we're controlling.
You can see I'm moving things
around on the desktop over there.
And I've got the address
book icon out there,
because for our demos today,
we're going to be creating some
tests to test Apple's address book.
Now the first thing I want to
do for creating these tests
is create a new suite here.
And since we're testing the address book,
let's just call this suite Address Book.
And a suite is just a collection of
scripts and images and various things.
We're going to go ahead and
create a new script here.
Now, as I said,
we want to start very simple.
So what's the simplest thing we
can do to test the address book?
Well, what we're going to do
is simply launch it.
OK?
Make sure that it launches.
So I'm going to create a script
here called Launch Address Book.
This is a script editing window and
I can just type a script over here.
What I'm going to do is go over
here and tell Eggplant what
I want it to do with the system.
In dealing with Eggplant,
if you think of it as
a willing and eager,
but not terribly bright assistant,
you kind of have the right idea.
I mean, this is a purple vegetable
we're dealing with here.
So we can't just tell Eggplant, oh,
go launch the address book.
It doesn't understand what that means.
But instead, we have to say things like,
oh, Eggplant,
would you look on the screen and
see the icon for the address book?
Please double click on it.
So that's what we're going to do.
And so we're going to select this
area of the screen over here,
kind of point that out
to Eggplant and say,
that's what the address book looks like,
and I want you to double click on it.
So I'll select double
click on the toolbar here.
Now, you can see that we're capturing
a picture of that icon,
and I need to give that a name in
order to make our script readable.
So I'm just going to
call that AB icon here.
Now, when I clicked on Save there,
three things happened.
The first was that we actually
did capture that image and
save it over here in our suite.
We also automatically created a
command in the script that says
double-click the address book icon.
And the third thing that happened was
that Eggplant carried out that command.
It went ahead and executed that command.
And when it did that,
Eggplant looked on the screen,
searched wherever it needed to on the
screen to find that address book icon,
so it could have been anywhere,
and it double-clicked on it.
This is great because now we're ready
to go on with the next step of our test.
Oh, but that's all our test was,
was to launch the address book.
Keep in mind that whenever
you're testing something,
it's a good idea to verify
that what you're automating
has actually taken place.
So we don't want to
end our test quite yet.
First, we want to make sure that the
address book is actually launched.
And we're going to do that by
looking for the title bar here.
We'll just tell Eggplant
we want to wait for that.
So let's look for the
address book title bar here.
And the wait for command, in this case,
it's waiting up to eight seconds
here for the title bar to show up.
It's a good idea to allow a
little bit of time at certain
points in your script when things
might take a little bit of time.
When you're launching an application,
quite often it may take a few seconds
for it to come up and be initialized.
Eggplant, if you don't kind of tell
it to hold on a little bit,
it's going to just charge
right ahead with the next step.
So these wait for commands
can be really valuable.
The other thing that I think
we'd like to do here in this
test is kind of finish things up,
put it back to the state
that things were in.
So we'll go ahead and quit
out of address book as well.
I'll do that by just
typing Command-Q here.
And so now you can see that
we're back to our initial state,
which allows us to run our script
here and make sure that it works.
Just going to run it here,
and you can see that it's launching
the address book and quitting-- oh,
it didn't take long.
But there we are.
Can we switch back to slides, please?
Slides?
Starting simple is a really
great way to get going,
building up tests as you go.
And we're going to build some more tests
on the address book in just a minute.
Another point to make here
is to complete the cycle.
So as you saw,
we started off in a well-known state.
Now this is important.
To make your life easier as
you're going about testing,
it's really helpful if you can start
with your system in a known state.
If you can have a machine
that's dedicated to testing,
or if not a machine,
then perhaps at least a separate user
account that is used for testing,
so that you know that things are
more or less in a known condition.
You don't have people tweaking different
parts of the interface and all that.
It'll make your life a little easier.
So start in a well-known state,
perform your test,
verify that your test has actually
done what it's supposed to do,
and then at the end,
return to the initial condition again.
This allows you to then repeat
the cycle later if you kind of
end up back where you started.
The next principle is
a really valuable one:
make it modular.
If you can create some
basic building blocks,
then you're able to reuse those as you
go on and create more complex scripts.
Let's take a look at
how we might do that.
Can we go back to the demo machine,
please?
For our next test here,
we're going to create a new card.
Let's just go ahead and do that.
We're going to create a new script here.
Call it our new card test.
How's that?
In this test, let's see,
the first thing we need to do
is to launch the address book.
Well, it happens that we've got a nice
script out there that can do that.
If I just drag that in here,
it says launch address book,
and this will actually allow us
to call one script from another.
Let's bring that script up,
and the only thing is that
our launch address book script
also quits the address book.
We don't really want that to happen yet,
so I'm just going to
change that script now.
We probably won't want to
use it all by itself again.
We can verify that this works by just
running our very short script right now.
Sure enough, Eggplant has launched
the address book for us,
so now we can go on with
the next step of our test.
Now the thing that we want to
do next is to create a new card.
We can do that by typing a command Q,
not a command Q, command N.
And so that's created a new card.
It's now waiting for us
to type in the first name.
So we'll type some text here.
And eggplant.
Now the next thing we want to do is
actually tab over to the next field.
I'm just going to put type text command
directly in here to tab over there.
Of course,
when I'm typing in a script like this,
Eggplant doesn't
automatically execute that.
We have a kind of a handy feature here
called Run Selection that allows us just
to select part of a script and run that.
So I'm going to go ahead
and run a selection here to
just execute that one line.
And I could go through the
toolbar items to type in our
text and that sort of thing.
I think it might be a little simpler to
just copy and paste some of this code.
So I'm going to do that,
and we'll put in support here.
And I think we need two
tabs after that one.
So let's have it do that much
and see where we're getting here.
So we're now ready to
type in a phone number.
So we'll put in the phone number.
And I'll just run that a little bit.
We're kind of building the script and
executing pieces of it as we go here.
And the next thing we want to
do is type in an email address.
We need all these tabs here now.
Just put in support at Redstone Software.
And there we go.
So how much of that do
we still need to run?
We need to put in our--
So now we've entered some
information on our card here,
and the next thing I want
to do is end editing.
So I'm going to come back
over here and to do that we're
going to capture another image.
The edit button down at the
bottom there that's pressed in,
we need to click on that to end editing.
So I'll just call that end editing.
And so there we go.
We've created a new card.
As I mentioned,
it's a good idea after doing
something to verify that in fact
whatever you've done has taken place.
Why don't we do that by doing
a little search for this card.
We can do that by putting another
type text command in here to
look for eggplant support.
You may notice that the search
field is already selected
there after ending editing,
so all we have to do is type in
this name and we'll see that it's
found that card now and we just
want to verify that it's shown up.
We're going to look for
the word eggplant support,
kind of all selected there.
Once again, we'll tell eggplant just to
wait for that to show up.
We'll call that eggplant
support selected,
I guess.
So here we go.
Now, the final step that we want
to take is to kind of clean
things up and quit out of here.
So why don't we go ahead
and delete this card.
We can do that by-- I'm just going to
put a comment in here to kind of-- oops.
Remember where we're at.
We're going to verify here.
Now we're going to delete the card again.
We're going to go ahead
and delete the card.
Go through the edit menu here.
Just click on the edit menu.
And click on delete.
There we go.
Our card is deleted and we'll go
ahead and quit out of Address Book.
It would be nice to do this in a
modular fashion like I was suggesting,
so why don't we just create a
command called Quit Address Book.
So that our script is nice and readable,
we haven't actually
created that script yet,
so we'll go ahead and do that.
All this one needs to do
is type a command "q".
We've got our complete script here now.
Why don't we try running this
one and see how that works out.
This is kind of a nice point for
you to go and get a cup of coffee
and sit back and relax while
eggplant does your work for you.
And there it is.
It's tested it.
We know that everything
is working great there.
So let's go back to the slides from it.
Adding modularity is really important.
We're going to see a little bit more
of that in the next demo as well.
Another principle that's
really valuable in testing,
particularly in automation, is repeat.
To take advantage of the capability of
the computer to do things repetitively.
Some of the benefits of repeat are
working with large quantities of data,
for example.
If you can feed your application
a lot of different data,
this can be really a good way to
stress it out and make sure that
it can handle all of the data.
You may also want to
test boundary conditions.
What do we mean by boundary conditions?
Well, odd values,
things like putting zeros into a
field where it's expecting a quantity,
or maybe even a negative number,
or putting in a name where
it's expecting a number,
things like that,
to kind of test some of the edges.
And so you want to test a lot of
different kinds of conditions,
and being able to iterate over
a lot of different sets of
data can be really valuable.
A similar idea is testing with
different combinations of data.
Maybe you're testing a catalog,
for example, or a clothing catalog,
and you've got an item that
comes in five different colors
and five different sizes.
Well, you can test each of your five
sizes and each of your five colors.
That's great, but what about the
different combinations?
So if you can kind of nest
some repeat loops and test all
of the different combinations,
this can be a really powerful thing
to do in case there are certain
combinations that lead to issues.
Cheers.
Intermittent failures is
kind of an interesting one.
I mentioned this briefly before.
This is something that we
actually ran into ourselves.
Some people ask whether we
use Eggplant to test Eggplant,
and yeah, we do.
We have a suite of tests that we
call the Eggplant Squared Test,
in which Eggplant drives another
machine running Eggplant and driving
another machine to create scripts and
run those scripts and all of that.
So it's a nice test that we've got.
At one point a couple of years ago,
we had a bug, something was happening
every once in a while,
and we'd go through and try
and see what was going on,
and it would never fail
when we were looking for it.
So we ran our Eggplant
Squared Test overnight.
It ran about 100 times in
the course of the night,
and we came back the next morning
to see what the results were and
found that it had failed twice.
So this is the kind of thing
that's really hard to track down,
but by examining the logs in the
cases where it had failed and
looking through that in detail,
we were able to figure out exactly where
the problem was and ultimately fix it.
So let's do another demo here,
if we can go back to the demo machine,
and take a look at how we
might do some repetition.
So I have a data file out here,
some valuable data that we want to
iterate over and create a number of
cards in the address book this time.
So let's start off by
creating a new test.
We'll call this the "Many Cards Test."
And as you can imagine,
the first thing we're going to want
to do is to launch the address book.
I'll just drag that script in.
And at the end,
we're going to want to quit.
So here I've got the beginning and
end of our script written already.
That's nice.
In between,
we're going to want to do some repeating
with some of this data in here.
And so I'll put it in a repeat loop.
But what do we want to do?
We're going to repeat.
Let's give a name record here.
And we're going to set that
to be each line of this file.
Now,
I don't know where that file is exactly.
I'm just going to drag that in here.
Okay, so there it is.
We're going to repeat with
each line of this file.
And now we've got something called
record that's being set successively
to each of the lines of the file.
Now the lines in the file,
as you can see, have several different
items of information.
There's the first name and the last name,
the phone number and the email address.
They're all separated by tabs.
So I don't really want to
deal with that as a whole.
I need to split that up.
So I want to take and
turn around and put...
[Transcript missing]
And so this is a way of very quickly
accessing all the data in the file,
but...
What are we going to do with that?
Well, we want to create an address
card for each of these.
So we just happen to have a
script out here that does a pretty
good job of creating a new card.
Let's see if we can borrow
some of our previous work.
I'm just going to copy that
part of it there and create
another new script called
"Create new card, let's say.
Okay.
And we'll just put all of that in there.
To call that script,
let me just drag this in over here,
create new card,
and we're going to need to
pass it some information.
So we've got these four items
of information that we want to
pass over to that other script.
So we'll do it like that.
Over in this script we need to
be able to receive those items,
so I'll put them over there as well.
Now, what we've got of course is some
code that we copied over from
another script that's going to
type the word eggplant in here,
which is not the name that we want.
So we'll just replace those
with some of these other
Terms here, first name, the last name,
and we'll just put phone in here,
no email, phone, and then email.
Okay, so there we've got that and yeah,
that looks like it
ought to be pretty good.
So why don't we try,
let's see where we're
at now with our script.
I don't think we need
to look at this anymore.
Maybe we could just run that script,
all except for actually
quitting things here.
We'll just run the first part
of it and see how that works.
So it's launched the address book and you
can see that it's kind of going through,
entering the information
here in the script.
If we wanted to, here in our run window,
we could pause the script and kind
of step through one at a time,
take a look at some of our variables.
We want to put the phone here and
see what number it's working with.
So we've got some ability
to interact there.
Let's just go ahead and continue,
let it finish entering
this information in there.
That's nice.
Now we've got a bunch of cards out
there with a lot of data in it.
The next step that we want to do,
of course,
is to verify that it's all there,
and we're also going to want
to kind of clean things up.
I'm a great believer in being lazy here,
so instead of typing this all again,
I'm just going to copy and paste.
Now we've got another loop to go
through the same set of data again.
This time,
instead of creating a new card,
we will verify.
and delete the card.
Okay, so we need another little
script here then to do that,
making things nicely modular.
So I'll just copy that name,
create a new script by that name.
Now this script is going to want to
do what's more or less the last part
of our original script out there,
the verifying and the deleting, right?
So if I just kind of
copy that code over here.
Once again, we can get some data names
here for our parameters.
So,
Rather than typing "eggplant
support," of course,
we're going to want to type
the first name and last name
that came from the data file.
This will be typing in the
search field at this point.
There's a little quirk that I've
discovered in trying this out,
that if you don't clear
out the search field first,
you end up putting a lot
of names in there together.
So it's a good idea to do
something to clear that out.
We'll do a type command A here first.
That will select the entire contents
of the search field before we
start typing so that we're not
just adding names to each other.
So, and there we go.
Now, we've also got a line that we
copied here from the other script
that says we're going to look
for eggplant support selected.
Well, that's not one of our data items,
and certainly it's not
all of our data items,
so we can't do that quite the same
way in our more general script here.
Look for-- oh,
I left something out of the other script.
It's going too fast.
After we deleted the menu item,
you know what we're going to do?
We're going to build
this on the fly here.
Here's what we're going to do.
We forgot to verify that, in fact,
when we had deleted our card,
that it was gone.
So I just want to add
some of that in here.
[Transcript missing]
There's something that shows up.
It's called no cards selected.
We haven't actually
captured this image yet.
We'll do that in a moment.
If that image is found,
then we know that something
went wrong because,
in fact, we have not found the thing
that we were looking for.
And so in that case,
we're going to want to log some
kind of a warning here to indicate
that there's been a problem.
[Transcript missing]
On the other hand, if it was found,
then we can go ahead and delete it here.
So the first thing we need to
do is capture that image that
we kind of missed out on before.
Let's go into live mode over here.
This is what's going to show up
in the case where we're searching
for something that's not found.
Let me just capture an image of that.
I'm going to capture mode here.
I'm just going to capture an
image called "No Matching Cards."
So that's the image that
we'll be looking at.
Oh, no, no card selected.
Well, it's called no matching cards.
Sorry, I got a little confused there.
But there we are.
And once we're done,
we want to also verify that when
we've clicked the delete menu item,
that in fact, that image is there.
So we're going to put in our wait
for-- give it eight seconds again,
I guess-- for the no matching cards here.
That was the little step that
got left out of our other script.
So let's take a look now and
see if this is going to work.
We've got all of our cards in here still.
We've got a little repeat loop.
Let's just kind of run that as
a selection and see if I made
any other mistakes there.
Looks like something's
not quite working right.
Verify and delete the card.
Okay, we'll just step through
that real briefly.
[Transcript missing]
That would make a difference.
We were calling an empty script
because it had never been saved.
So if we run this again,
maybe we'll get a little
better results there.
So you can see it's typing
in Harry Potter here,
searching for him,
deleting him out of the address book,
and so forth.
Going through, verifying that each of
those cards is there,
and getting rid of those cards.
And once that's done,
we were just running a
little selection there again.
Let's go ahead and let it finish by
quitting out of the address book.
And let's see if we can run our
script in its entirety one more time.
Once again,
being able to repeat through a quantity
of data is really a valuable thing,
something that you're not
going to want to sit and type
all these names in by hand.
Eggplant is actually working through
the user interface just like a
user would put these cards in.
In some situations,
you may have cases where you could
load a lot of data into a database
directly using some back-end tool,
and that can be a valuable thing to do
if you need to have a lot of data in
there that you want to test against.
But there may be situations where your
application is going to fail if somebody
sits and enters hundreds of data items
directly through the user interface.
So you may want to do
both kinds of testing,
and that's one of the values that
we've got here with automation.
So let's switch back to slides, please.
So once again,
leveraging repeat is a great thing to do.
Once you've done some automation,
this is one of the things that's
going to give you a great benefit.
About this point, you may be thinking,
OK, well, great.
We've got started.
We've got some tests going.
I've got a little bit of momentum here.
And what should I test next?
Well, here's a few little ideas,
at least.
One is to kind of grow as you go.
So what does that mean?
Well,
as you're creating your application,
you're going to be continuing
to add new features.
So it makes sense to add the tests
for those features as you go.
And this is a great way to build up a
larger library of automated test scripts
that you can run after each build.
Another thing, of course,
is to focus on high-value
areas of your application,
because you really want to
maximize the value that you're
getting out of your testing here.
So you want to focus on the
things that are important to your
customers and also take a look
at those high-risk areas again,
things like bug regressions.
What do we mean by bug
regressions exactly?
Well, when you have a bug and you fix it,
that's great,
but something that happens sometimes
is that as you go on and add other
features in your application,
it occasionally happens that those
same bugs occur again or something
in the same area of the program.
So it's a good idea to have tests in
place that will guard against your
application regressing in that way.
Crashes, obviously,
or other areas of reapplication
where there's potential for
data loss for your customers.
And once again, the boundary conditions,
testing a variety of
different data there.
You also may want to focus on the
perceived value to your users.
So what are your users looking
for in your application?
They need the usability there.
They want to be able to use
your application easily.
There are certain features
of your application that are
really important to them,
and this is really critical.
Another area, lots of times,
is performance.
You care about how well
your application performs.
If it's getting really sluggish,
your users aren't going
to be really happy.
Let's just talk about
that a little bit more,
because performance testing gets
kind of a lot of attention sometimes.
As I see it,
there's a couple of different
ways to look at performance.
One is that you can look at it in
terms of the code and your algorithms.
As developers,
we love to get in there and tweak
things and make them run faster,
and that can be great.
Sometimes this provides an
enormous benefit to your users.
But at other times,
you may speed something up by ten times,
but if it only accounts for one percent
of what's going on in your application,
the actual benefit to your
users may not be all that great.
So it's important to look
at also the user experience.
How does the performance
appear to the user?
Because their satisfaction
is really based on that.
So for example, let's say you've got some
kind of a search that you're
doing in your application.
So you might have a little
script that clicks on a search
button and then waits for,
in this case,
up to 30 seconds for whatever
the next thing is to show up
on the screen that's going to
indicate that the search is done.
Well, this is fine.
An eggplant will come along and do this,
and it'll wait for up to 30
seconds for the search to finish.
But your user may not be too happy if
they're waiting around for 30 seconds.
So you might want to add a little extra
code in here to record the start time.
Before you start,
you might want to start the search
and then afterwards subtract the start
time from the current time to see
if it's greater than five seconds.
Then that may be something
that you want to be aware of.
So this little bit of code here would log
a warning that'll show up in your result
log that you can see later then to know
that things aren't quite up to par there.
So it's important to validate
what's valuable to the user,
because ultimately what you're
really trying to do here-- I know
I've said this quite a few times
already-- but really to deliver a
quality experience to your customers.
And so this is a great way to
focus your testing when you
really can't test everything.
Let's go back to the
demo machine again here.
Now, about this point,
some of you may be wondering, well,
how do you know if all these
scripts are succeeding or if they're
failing and what's going on here?
I've kind of referred briefly
to a results log in here.
Let's go back and take a look
at our suite that we created.
We've got a number of
scripts out here now.
We've also got a number of different
images that we've captured in the
course of developing these scripts.
We also have something
called the results tab here,
and that is where we list the
results of the different tests.
So our first test was
called Launch Address Book,
and we can see that it's got a run
that's listed under here in green
because when we ran that test,
it succeeded.
And if you look down here,
we can see exactly what it did,
when it started, what it did next.
It double-clicked on
that address book icon.
You'll see that it's recorded
here exactly where it found
that icon on the screen.
You probably don't really care,
but once in a while,
it may make a difference where it
was that the eggplant found it and
the exact time that that occurred,
down to the millisecond if you need it.
And so you can see each of the steps
that it took as it went through and
that ultimately it was a success
with an execution time of one second.
So in the case of our many cards test,
that was a little more interesting.
We have quite a bit more going on there.
It was going through, again,
launching the address book and
then typing some various data
in the fields and so forth.
And down at the end here,
it went through and checked out some--
checked to make sure that everything was
there and deleted it all and finished up.
So again, that's nice.
But there's still this question of, well,
what happens if something goes wrong?
So let's see if we can
make something go wrong.
Here's our new card test.
And--
This is one where we were
just creating a single card,
and then we went on and
verified that it was there.
And we verified by looking
for the word eggplant support.
Maybe we changed that to something
else so that it doesn't find it.
I'll put a one second wait in there
because I found that sometimes eggplant
is going ahead so fast that it'll
start looking for the next thing before
it's actually got this all typed in.
So if we change this now,
let me just run that one
more time before we do that.
I'll kind of comment that out there.
Run the script again so that you can
remember what it was that it did.
It goes through, it creates the card,
enters all the information in here, and--
[Transcript missing]
that that image wasn't found on there.
And if we go up into our results here,
we can see that, in fact,
the most recent run of
that script has failed.
And if we click on that one,
you'll notice that Eggplant has
actually captured a picture here.
Whenever a script fails,
Eggplant will capture a full-screen image
of what was going on on the system at
the time to help you go back and find
out later exactly what was happening
and where things might have gone wrong.
So we can see that somebody has
typed in Vista support here.
Well, that doesn't exist, I guess.
And so it wasn't able to find that.
So...
We can also track back through
here still in our results and see
everything that the script did do,
what it found, where it went,
and so forth, up until the point where,
well, this is what it was looking for,
was eggplant support,
and of course it didn't
find that on the screen.
But if I double click on that,
it'll bring us right back
to that line in the script,
and that'll help us to figure
out how to resolve the issue.
So that's just a little
bit about results.
And let's switch back
to slides once again.
So once again,
it's really important to validate the
things that are valuable to your users,
focus on what their interests are,
and you'll be delivering a
quality experience for them.
Working with the results course to
understand which of your tests are
passing and which ones are failing is
really important to your overall testing.
I'd like to talk just a little
bit about one other point here,
the idea of system integration testing,
or what I call system
integration testing.
Because your application, well, you know,
I already said, you know,
you don't want to focus just
on your code and testing that.
You should test the application.
Well,
I'm not going to say that testing the
application isn't really enough either.
You need to test your application
in a broader environment
because your application,
most of the time,
is not going to be living
all by itself on the system.
Most software these days is
going to be interacting with
other software on the system.
It's got things going on there,
either exporting data or importing
data or interacting in some other way
with other elements of the system.
So it's really important to do
some testing also in the overall
context where it's going to be.
So you may also want to
test a complete process.
There are times when you may have
data that's flowing through into
your application and then out into
some other application and so forth.
And it can be really nice to be able to
follow that through a complete process,
not just within a single application.
You may also have different
configurations of your software,
different options that
could be turned on or off,
that sort of thing.
If you've got an automated test that's
all set up to test one configuration,
it shouldn't be too hard to
adapt that to test another one.
Or if you're testing
on different platforms,
maybe your application runs on
Mac OS 10.1 and 10.2 and 10.3 and 10.4,
you're going to want to be able to test
it on all these different platforms.
And having a single set of tests that
can test it consistently the same way
on each platform can be really great.
So clearly there's some
benefits to automation here.
Consistency across
different configurations,
also across different platforms,
can be really valuable.
Having repeatable results is always nice.
Being able to run the same
test in exactly the same way.
Having those logs that you can go
back to to see exactly what was done.
This is an issue that comes up
from time to time in organizations.
The developers have spent a lot of
effort creating a great application
and they think it's wonderful.
They hand it off to the
testers and the testers say,
"Oh, it's all broken.
This thing, it doesn't work when I do
this." And the developers go,
"Yeah, yeah,
right." And so if you have that
kind of communication issue between
your developers and your testers,
it can be really nice for the
testers to have a tool to say,
"Oh yeah, this is what I did.
And here's the log that shows exactly
what went on and exactly what the results
were." So that can be a really valuable
communication tool to go back from the
testing team to the development team.
And of course,
automation is going to give you more
efficient repetition of complex tasks,
just as it does with some
of the simpler tasks.
So let's go back once more,
the last time here, to the demo machine.
And take a look at an integration test.
First I want to go in
here in the address book,
delete the card that didn't
quite get deleted there.
Back to our initial state here.
Now I've got a little script that
I wrote this afternoon actually.
Let me show you what
this does a little bit.
First thing in here is it's going to
slow some things down for the demo.
Eggplant has a lot of different
timing parameters that you can adjust.
If you're testing a system
that's running a little slower,
you may need to slow
Eggplant down a little more.
Or if you're, whatever,
if you're testing a web application,
oftentimes you need even more time there
for the web application to respond.
So you can adjust some of your
general timing parameters.
Then this script is going to go through,
launch the address book,
create a new card,
enter some information in the card,
finish the editing.
It's going to export a
vCard to the desktop.
So it's going to export the information
from that card onto the desktop.
Then it's going to delete
the card in an address book,
import the information again from
the vCard by dragging that back in.
Then it's going to send email.
Well, it's not actually sending an email.
There's a command in Eggplant, actually,
to send email.
If you're running a test overnight
and you want to have it send
you the results in the morning,
you can do that.
In this case,
we're testing the sending email
feature of the address book.
So it's going to try to send,
generate an email message to the
person who's in the address card there.
And then it's going to actually type
some information into the mail message,
including putting a picture in there.
And then finally it goes through
and kind of cleans things up.
So let me just show you.
Again,
I've got this slowed down a little bit
so you can can see what's going on here.
I think I've got the script
animation turned on here,
so I'll just leave this window up so
you can kind of watch what's going on
a little bit there as it's running.
So it's going through and you
can see that it's launched
the address book there.
It's creating a new card,
typing in some information.
I've got it typing nice and slow here.
Sometimes it's nice to be able
to have things run slowly,
either because you want to do a
demonstration or for whatever reason,
to be able to kind of watch what's
going on a little better because
eggplant tends to run pretty fast.
It responds to things as quickly as
it can as they come up on the screen.
So it's now exporting the V-card there.
You can see that on the
screen on the desktop there.
And it's deleted the card.
Now it's dragging the card
nice and slowly there back
into the address book window.
So it's imported the data again.
Now it's going to go send email here.
So now it's launching
the mail application.
And mail, of course,
has come up with that
address in the to field.
Now it's composing a mail message.
I'm not trying to have it
actually send the email message,
but you certainly could
do that kind of thing.
Eggplant has the ability also to
connect to a different machine in
the middle of a test if it needs to.
So you can send an
email from one machine,
go to another machine, open it up,
see if the mail has arrived.
Here we've got a picture
of Aunt Aubergine here
reclining on the divan.
And there's our mail message.
And of course,
it's going to go through and clean things
up and close that all out afterwards to
put things back to where they started,
including dragging the
V card down into the trash.
So that's our little demo.
Can we switch back to slides, please?
You may have some ideas at this point
that there are some other possible things
that you could do with an automation tool
like this besides just testing software.
In fact, a number of our customers have
found some rather creative
things to do with Eggplant.
But some of the things that
I thought I would just toss out
here as ideas to kind of get
your imagination going would be,
for example, to monitor and test
deployed applications.
Mostly we think of software
testing in terms of testing
software that we're developing.
So as you're creating it,
you want to test it and you're
going to be delivering that.
But what if you have a web-based
application and once you've
created it and tested it,
you're actually going to deploy
it on the web and it's going
to be up running 24 by 7.
It might be nice to have a system
that can go out and call up that
website and run through and kind of
make sure that things are actually
up and running and validate the
application while it's running live.
Another option would be to
validate some third-party software.
Eggplant is totally independent
of the system that it's testing.
It doesn't know anything about
the software that's out there.
So it can test software from
other companies as well as
it can test your software.
And we've had situations where
we've had customers who wanted
to be able to validate that,
for example,
different versions of the applications
that they use at their company are
still going to work with the new
version of an operating system when
the new operating system rolls out.
So that's a good idea.
Thank you.
got an interface,
then it's something that can be scripted
and you can create tests through the
software interface to the hardware.
We also have a capability in
Eggplant to generate movies.
So while your script is running it
can be capturing a movie of what's
going on on the remote system.
By slowing things down a little bit
like I did there in the last demo,
you can adjust the timing and create a
movie of something that might be used for
documentation or for training purposes
to show people certain aspects of your
application or to use in your marketing.
So those are just a few ideas
that I wanted to throw out there.
So what you've learned,
or what I hope you've learned,
just getting back on
those same points again,
the benefits of automation
and software testing,
because this can really help you
to get a lot more testing done,
test more thoroughly things that
you could never test manually,
but also to test the things that you
can test manually more efficiently.
I hope you've seen that getting
started with automation doesn't
have to be terribly hard.
We've created two or three good tests
there in a very short period of time,
and it's not all that hard.
I, of course, know eggplant pretty well,
but you can get there, too.
It's really not terribly
difficult to get started with.
And where to focus your testing areas,
clearly, I've said it several times,
focusing on the areas that bring
the most value to your users.
We looked at a few different techniques
there as we went through the demos.
We were doing what are
called functional GUI tests,
you know, testing functionality through
the graphical interface.
We played around with
some modularity there.
We did quite a bit of that
actually in the demo today.
Having scripts that call other
scripts and those we were able to
use to build up our later tests.
And you can get quite a lot of value
out of your tests that way if you
make them in a modular fashion so
that you can reuse parts of them.
Hello?
Okay.
Couldn't hear myself anymore.
I'm getting used to this loud voice.
So, data-driven tests, we, of course,
played around with those as well.
One of the great
advantages of automation.
So, and of course, we introduced the six
principles of practical testing.
Testing the user experience,
not the code,
because you really want to test
things from the user's point of view.
Starting simple and building
up from there as you go.
Completing that testing cycle,
which makes it a lot easier as you're
developing a number of tests if you can
always end where you started so that
you're ready to run your next test.
Creating things modularly, as I said.
Taking advantage of repeat and validating
the things that are valuable to your
users so that you can deliver some
really great software to your customers,
which is what we'd all like to see.
[Transcript missing]
Please check it out.
I'm Doug Simons.
Emma Campbell is here also,
our Director of Sales.
I'd just like to invite
her up for the Q&A.
And we've got documentation and
sample code and other resources on our
website there at redstonesoftware.com.
And if you'd like to go download
a free trial version of Eggplant,
give this thing a try and
see how it works for you.
So there's a URL there too,
or you can just find it on our website.